Sentiment analysis is a popular task in natural language processing. The goal of sentiment analysis is to classify the text based on the mood or mentality expressed in the text, 
which can be positive negative, or neutral.

Sentiment analysis is the process of classifying whether a block of text is positive, negative, or neutral. The goal that Sentiment mining tries to gain is to be analysed people’s 
opinions in a way that can help businesses expand. It focuses not only on polarity (positive, negative & neutral) but also on emotions (happy, sad, angry, etc.). It uses various 
Natural Language Processing algorithms such as Rule-based, Automatic, and Hybrid.

let's consider a scenario, if we want to analyze whether a product is satisfying customer requirements, or is there a need for this product in the market. We can use sentiment analysis to monitor that product’s reviews. Sentiment analysis is also efficient to use when there is a large set of unstructured data, and we want to classify that data by automatically tagging it. Net Promoter Score (NPS) surveys are used extensively to gain knowledge of how a customer perceives a product or service. Sentiment analysis also gained popularity due to its feature to process large volumes of NPS responses and obtain consistent results quickly.

 Types :
Fine-Grained Sentiment Analysis
This depends on the polarity base. This category can be designed as very positive, positive, neutral, negative, or very negative. The rating is done on a scale of 1 to 5.
If the rating is 5 then it is very positive, 2 then negative, and 3 then neutral.

Emotion detection
The sentiments happy, sad, angry, upset, jolly, pleasant, and so on come under emotion detection. It is also known as a lexicon method of sentiment analysis.

Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis
It focuses on a particular aspect for instance if a person wants to check the feature of the cell phone then it checks the aspect such as the battery, screen, 
and camera quality then aspect based is used.

Multilingual Sentiment Analysis
Multilingual consists of different languages where the classification needs to be done as positive, negative, and neutral. This is highly challenging and comparatively 
difficult.
